So, first thing that happens to you is
that your attention becomes subtler.
Attention becoming subtler means
you start understanding deeper things.
For example, a bird can see a flower
but cannot feel the beauty of a flower.
And a unrealised person can see
the beauty of a flower,
but cannot see the vibrations of the flower.
So you become subtler, your
attention becomes subtler.
You definitely are at a higher evolutionary
stage than the other people are.
Now we have to see how we use our attention.
You have seen, even when
you were not realised, that,
supposing you start developing an art
in your hand from your very childhood,
then you develop the deftness
of that particular art,
because a kind of a myelin
sheath grows on the nerves.
In the same way, when you are realised,
I would say when you are a newly born person,
if you start respecting your attention
then gradually you develop
a deftness for Sahaja Yoga.
But so many people, when they get
realised, they hardly come second time.
Even if they come second time,
they do not develop the feeling
of vibrations more,
they still go on being busy with
their day-to-day work,
wasting their attention on things which
do not give you the subtler feeling.
So the subtleness, the deftness of the art
of Sahaja does not develop itself.
For example, I would say a
person who is over-read,
as soon as he gets his realisation he
starts tallying it with what he has read,
this makes his attention again wasted.
As it is, his attention has been
fixed by these conventional ideas;
some of them are correct, some are incorrect,
some are absolutely faulty, some are useless.
Some are only because they
wanted to make money,
they have published some trash.
As soon as you get realisation, you go
back to your own gross awareness
and start tallying this subtle with the gross,
so you start again losing your vibrations.
Actually after getting realisation
I have seen, with small children,
they sleep for very long hours.
They become little inactive for some time.
But if an elder gets it he will
immediately go to the book store,
buy one book on Kundalini and
start reading about it.
Then some of you, not understanding
that you have become somebody else,
take it for granted, “Alright,
Mataji has been very kind;
She says I am far, but how am I to believe?”
As if by believing it they are going
to give some money to Me
or I don’t know what they are going to give.
“I can see the vibrations coming, but
what’s the use of getting the vibrations?
Why did She give us vibrations?”
Again come back to the gross idea of utility,
because that’s human nature, has been
so far, to make everything into utility.
Everything must be utilised, you see.
Man thinks no end of himself.
So he starts putting his
realisation into utility.
“What utility it has? How many
people are going to get it?
What is going to happen? What is the ratio?
What is the schedule?
What is this? What is that?”
You have been given this subtleness to enjoy.
Like, if we enjoy the beauty
of flower, we just enjoy.
Do we go to the books and
find out, “What we should do
about with this enjoyment of ours?
How to enjoy this flower?”
And then “What to do?” And,
“Who has described about the flowers,
so let us see if this is fitting into that?”
But is done very commonly and
I really don’t know how to say,
because it’s such a foolish thing.
And I am only afraid that, sometimes, if I say,
they will feel hurt, and, as human beings are,
they get hurt for nothing at all.
That’s very foolish.
Children are very sensible that way.
Once they get it they start enjoying it.
They just enjoy it.
They just sleep off!
They are not bothered.
They think, that it’s something that
is to be enjoyed, “Let us enjoy it.”